content/cockpit/smart-rules.md, before:

---
weight: 80
title: Smart rules
layout: bundle
outputs:
  - html
  - json
sector:
  - app_enablement
helpcontent:
- label: smart-rules
  title: Smart rules
  content: "Smart rules are a useful means to analyze data in realtime and to perform actions based on data. The global smart rules displayed here apply to a global context (in contrast to local ones for specific groups or devices). Note that you need specific permissions to see and manage smart rules.


  Cumulocity IoT includes preset smart rules templates, for example 'On measurement threshold create alarm'. Since the functionality of the various smart rule types differs, different parameters are required to configure it. See *Smart rules collection* in the user documentation for details on each smart rule template and its configuration."
---

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} includes the Streaming Analytics application which can analyze data in realtime and perform actions based on data.

To easily create rules, the Cockpit application includes a smart rules builder which allows you to create rules from templates (so-called smart rule templates).

The smart rules functionality is only available if the tenant is subscribed to the Smartrule microservice and the Apama-ctrl microservice.

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}
* To use the smart rules functionality, you must be subscribed to the Smartrule and Apama-ctrl microservice.
{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

Smart rules are parameterized. There are two sources for parameters:

- **Rule parameters** are provided by the user when creating a smart rule from a template. Examples are email addresses and alarm texts.
- **Object parameters** are stored in the group or device. These parameters can be edited after the smart rule has been created. An example includes min and max values for thresholds.

There are two different types of smart rules:

- **Global smart rules**

  Global smart rules are created in a global context (**Smart rules** page, alarms, data explorer, and so on).

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}
ROLES & PERMISSIONS for global smart rules:

- To view a global smart rules: READ permission for permission type "Global smart rules" or "CEP management" and READ permission for permission type "Inventory"
- To edit global smart rules: ADMIN permission for permission type "Global smart rules" or "CEP management" and ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory"
- To create a global smart rule: ADMIN permission for permission type "Global smart rules" or "CEP management" and CREATE or ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory"
- To duplicate a global smart rule: ADMIN permission for permission type "Global smart rules" or "CEP management" and CREATE or ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory"
- To delete a global smart rule: ADMIN permission for permission type "Global smart rules" or "CEP management" and ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory"
{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

- **Local smart rules**

  Local smart rules are created in either a group or a device. They are visible to everyone with access to the group/device.

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}
ROLES & PERMISSIONS for local smart rules:

- To view local smart rules: READ permission for permission type "Inventory" or READ permission for "Inventory" in the inventory roles
- To edit local smart rules: ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory" or CHANGE permission for "Inventory" in the inventory roles
- To create a new local smart rule: CREATE permission for permission type "Inventory" or CHANGE permission for "Inventory"  in the inventory roles
- To delete a local smart rule: ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory" or CHANGE permission for "Inventory" in the inventory roles
{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

Smart rules can be seen in two places:

- In the **Global smart rules** page accessible from the **Configuration** menu.

  ![Global smart rules](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-smart-rules-list.png)

  In the **Global smart rules** page, only the global smart rules are shown.

- In the **Smart rules** tab of a device or group.

  ![Smart rules info tab](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-smartrule-info-tab.png)

  In a local context (group or device) the local smart rules are shown. For users with the relevant permissions, both local and global smart rules are shown.

{{< c8y-admon-related >}}
- [Platform administration > {{< standard-tenant >}} administration > Alarm mapping](/standard-tenant/alarm-mapping/) for details on managing smart rules for your devices.
{{< /c8y-admon-related >}}

### To create a smart rule {#to-create-a-smart-rule}

Smart rules can both be created in the **Global smart rules** page (global smart rules), accessible from the **Configuration** menu in the navigator, or in the **Smart rules** tab of any group or a device (local smart rules).

1. Click **Add smart rule** in the top menu bar. <br>
2. Select a smart rule template from the list. Note that this list might differ based on your installation.
3. In the resulting dialog box, use the toggle to select if the rule will be enabled or disabled, see [To enable/disable a smart rule](#to-enabledisable-a-smart-rule) for details.
4. Next, configure the rule parameters. The parameters differ from rule to rule, for details see the individual rule descriptions in [Smart rules collection](/cockpit/smart-rules-collection/).
6. Click **Create** to create the smart rule.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
When you create a smart rule in the **Global smart rules** page, it will be active for all assets by default, unless you select target asset(s) in step 4 of the dialog box, see also [To enable/disable a smart rule](#to-enabledisable-a-smart-rule).
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

Smart rules can be instantiated multiple times.


### To edit a smart rule {#to-edit-a-smart-rule}

Click the menu icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-menu-vertical text-muted icon-20"></i> at the right of an entry and then click **Edit**.

For details on the fields see [To create a smart rule](#to-create-a-smart-rule).


### To duplicate a smart rule {#to-duplicate-a-smart-rule}

1. Click the menu icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-menu-vertical text-muted icon-20"></i> at the right of an entry and then click **Duplicate**.
2. Modify at least the name.
3. Click **Save & close** to save the smart rule and return to the smart rule list.

### To delete a smart rule {#to-delete-a-smart-rule}

Click the menu icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-menu-vertical text-muted icon-20"></i> at the right of an entry and then click **Delete**.

### To debug a smart rule {#to-debug-a-smart-rule}

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
This feature is not available with Apama.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

For easier debugging, there is a direct link from a smart rule to the corresponding event processing module.

Click the menu icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-menu-vertical text-muted icon-20"></i> at the right of an entry and then click **Inspect** to use this link.

### To enable/disable a smart rule {#to-enabledisable-a-smart-rule}

If a smart rule is set to **Enabled** in the edit dialog (accessible from the **Global smart rules** page and the **Smart rules** tab of a particular device/group), it is globally "turned on" (that means, its underlying module gets deployed) so that the rule is available for devices and groups.

If it is set to **Disabled** it is "turned off" (that means, its underlying module is not deployed).

In addition to globally enabling/disabling a smart rule, a smart rule can be in **active** or **inactive** state for particular objects (groups or devices). If **active**, the rule will process events for these groups and devices.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
On creating a smart rule in the **Global smart rules** page, it will be active by default for all assets, unless you explicitly select target asset(s). If specific target assets are selected, it will be deactivated for all other assets. A local smart rule created in the **Smart rules** tab of a particular group or device is automatically activated for the respective target asset (and its direct children).
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

To explicitly activate or deactivate a rule, navigate to the **Smart rules** tab of the particular group or device and set the **Active/Inactive** toggle to **Active** or **Inactive** respectively.  

An example use case for deactivating a smart rule for a single object could be that a particular device is generating too many threshold alarms. The rule can be deactivated for this device only, but still be active for all other objects.

In case of a group, you activate/deactivate the smart rule with the toggle for the group alone. You can then separately activate/deactivate the rule for the group's children via the dropdown box below the toggle.

<img src="/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-smartrule-children.png" name="Smart rule activate children" />

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}
A rule which is activated for a particular object only works if the rule is also globally enabled.
{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

### Example: Defining explicit thresholds {#example-defining-explicit-thresholds}

To define a threshold rule follow these steps:

1. In the navigator, select the desired group or device to apply a threshold to.
2. Switch to the **Data explorer** tab.
3. If the data point that should raise the threshold is not visible by default, select **Add data point** and [add a data point](/cockpit/data-point-library/#to-add-a-data-point-to-the-library).
4. Click the menu icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-menu-vertical text-muted icon-20"></i> at the end of the row of the respective data point and select **Create smart rule**.
5. Select the smart rule "On measurement explicit threshold create alarm".
6. Fill in the red range minimum and red range maximum value. When the measurement value enters or leaves the RED range, an alarm is created or respectively cleared. For details, see the description of the rule "On measurement explicit threshold create alarm" in the [Smart rules collection](/cockpit/smart-rules-collection/).
7. Under **Create Alarm** you can optionally edit the alarm type and the alarm text.
8. Under **Target assets or devices** you can select the object this rule will be applied to.
9. Click **Create** to create the smart rule.

The rule will automatically be set to active and alarms appear if they arise.

### Chain rule execution {#chain-rule-execution}

Smart rules can create a new data item on the platform. For example, the threshold rule creates new alarms. This new data can be handled further by selected smart rules, for example, by an "On alarm send e-mail" rule.

Using this mechanism, it is possible to create a chain of smart rules.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
If you create a rule chain keep in mind how much data will be created and avoid overload or excessive amount of data.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

Commit message:

[MTM-54377] * added explanation on 2 types of global smart rules. * added mention of one more place where smart rules are displayed.

content/cockpit/smart-rules.md, after:

---
weight: 80
title: Smart rules
layout: bundle
outputs:
  - html
  - json
sector:
  - app_enablement
helpcontent:
- label: smart-rules
  title: Smart rules
  content: "Smart rules are a useful means to analyze data in realtime and to perform actions based on data. The global smart rules displayed here apply to a global context (in contrast to local ones for specific groups or devices). Note that you need specific permissions to see and manage smart rules.


  Cumulocity IoT includes preset smart rules templates, for example 'On measurement threshold create alarm'. Since the functionality of the various smart rule types differs, different parameters are required to configure it. See *Smart rules collection* in the user documentation for details on each smart rule template and its configuration."
---

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} includes the Streaming Analytics application which can analyze data in realtime and perform actions based on data.

To easily create rules, the Cockpit application includes a smart rules builder which allows you to create rules from templates (so-called smart rule templates).

The smart rules functionality is only available if the tenant is subscribed to the Smartrule microservice and the Apama-ctrl microservice.

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}
* To use the smart rules functionality, you must be subscribed to the Smartrule and Apama-ctrl microservice.
{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

Smart rules are parameterized. There are two sources for parameters:

- **Rule parameters** are provided by the user when creating a smart rule from a template. Examples are email addresses and alarm texts.
- **Object parameters** are stored in the group or device. These parameters can be edited after the smart rule has been created. An example includes min and max values for thresholds.

There are two different types of smart rules:
- Global smart rules
- Local smart rules

**Global smart rules**

  Global smart rules are created in a global context (**Smart rules** page, alarms, data explorer, and so on).

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}
ROLES & PERMISSIONS for global smart rules:

- To view a global smart rules: READ permission for permission type "Global smart rules" or "CEP management" and READ permission for permission type "Inventory"
- To edit global smart rules: ADMIN permission for permission type "Global smart rules" or "CEP management" and ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory"
- To create a global smart rule: ADMIN permission for permission type "Global smart rules" or "CEP management" and CREATE or ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory"
- To duplicate a global smart rule: ADMIN permission for permission type "Global smart rules" or "CEP management" and CREATE or ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory"
- To delete a global smart rule: ADMIN permission for permission type "Global smart rules" or "CEP management" and ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory"
{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

Depending on initial configuration provided when creating a global smart rule there are 2 types possible.
- global smart rules by default enabled for all assets - when by providing the configuration no asset is selected. Such smart rule is automatically applied to any asset available in the system including those assets that a added later in time.
- global smart rules by default disabled for all assets - when by providing configuration at least one asset is selected. Such smart rule is automatically disabled to aby other asset except those provided initially in configuration. It can be enabled for newly added assets manually.

**Local smart rules**

  Local smart rules are created in either a group or a device. They are visible to everyone with access to the group/device.

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}
ROLES & PERMISSIONS for local smart rules:

- To view local smart rules: READ permission for permission type "Inventory" or READ permission for "Inventory" in the inventory roles
- To edit local smart rules: ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory" or CHANGE permission for "Inventory" in the inventory roles
- To create a new local smart rule: CREATE permission for permission type "Inventory" or CHANGE permission for "Inventory"  in the inventory roles
- To delete a local smart rule: ADMIN permission for permission type "Inventory" or CHANGE permission for "Inventory" in the inventory roles
{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

Smart rules can be seen in three places:

- In the **Global smart rules** page accessible from the **Configuration** menu.

  ![Global smart rules](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-smart-rules-list.png)

  In the **Global smart rules** page, only the global smart rules are shown.

- In the **Smart rules** tab of a device or group.

  ![Smart rules info tab](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-smartrule-info-tab.png)

  In a local context (group or device) the local smart rules are shown. For users with the relevant permissions, both local and global smart rules are shown.

  From the context of a group or device it's possible to modify only local smart rules. Editing global smart rules allowed only from global smart rules view.

- In the **Status** tab of owned microservice.

  In a local context of microservice are shown global and local smart rules (considering the permissions of the user). From the view it is possible to configure limited number of smart rules, mainly related to alarms that might be created by microservice while transitioning via different deployment states.

  From context of microservice it is possible to modify only local smart rules. Editing global smart rules allowed only from global smart rules view.

{{< c8y-admon-related >}}
- [Platform administration > {{< standard-tenant >}} administration > Alarm mapping](/standard-tenant/alarm-mapping/) for details on managing smart rules for your devices.
{{< /c8y-admon-related >}}

### To create a smart rule {#to-create-a-smart-rule}

Smart rules can both be created in the **Global smart rules** page (global smart rules), accessible from the **Configuration** menu in the navigator, or in the **Smart rules** tab of any group or a device (local smart rules).

1. Click **Add smart rule** in the top menu bar. <br>
2. Select a smart rule template from the list. Note that this list might differ based on your installation.
3. In the resulting dialog box, use the toggle to select if the rule will be enabled or disabled, see [To enable/disable a smart rule](#to-enabledisable-a-smart-rule) for details.
4. Next, configure the rule parameters. The parameters differ from rule to rule, for details see the individual rule descriptions in [Smart rules collection](/cockpit/smart-rules-collection/).
6. Click **Create** to create the smart rule.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
When you create a smart rule in the **Global smart rules** page, it will be active for all assets by default, unless you select target asset(s) in step 4 of the dialog box, see also [To enable/disable a smart rule](#to-enabledisable-a-smart-rule).
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

Smart rules can be instantiated multiple times.


### To edit a smart rule {#to-edit-a-smart-rule}

Click the menu icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-menu-vertical text-muted icon-20"></i> at the right of an entry and then click **Edit**.

For details on the fields see [To create a smart rule](#to-create-a-smart-rule).


### To duplicate a smart rule {#to-duplicate-a-smart-rule}

1. Click the menu icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-menu-vertical text-muted icon-20"></i> at the right of an entry and then click **Duplicate**.
2. Modify at least the name.
3. Click **Save & close** to save the smart rule and return to the smart rule list.

### To delete a smart rule {#to-delete-a-smart-rule}

Click the menu icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-menu-vertical text-muted icon-20"></i> at the right of an entry and then click **Delete**.

### To debug a smart rule {#to-debug-a-smart-rule}

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
This feature is not available with Apama.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

For easier debugging, there is a direct link from a smart rule to the corresponding event processing module.

Click the menu icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-menu-vertical text-muted icon-20"></i> at the right of an entry and then click **Inspect** to use this link.

### To enable/disable a smart rule {#to-enabledisable-a-smart-rule}

If a smart rule is set to **Enabled** in the edit dialog (accessible from the **Global smart rules** page and the **Smart rules** tab of a particular device/group), it is globally "turned on" (that means, its underlying module gets deployed) so that the rule is available for devices and groups.

If it is set to **Disabled** it is "turned off" (that means, its underlying module is not deployed).

In addition to globally enabling/disabling a smart rule, a smart rule can be in **active** or **inactive** state for particular objects (groups or devices). If **active**, the rule will process events for these groups and devices.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
On creating a smart rule in the **Global smart rules** page, it will be active by default for all assets, unless you explicitly select target asset(s). If specific target assets are selected, it will be deactivated for all other assets. A local smart rule created in the **Smart rules** tab of a particular group or device is automatically activated for the respective target asset (and its direct children).
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

To explicitly activate or deactivate a rule, navigate to the **Smart rules** tab of the particular group or device and set the **Active/Inactive** toggle to **Active** or **Inactive** respectively.  

An example use case for deactivating a smart rule for a single object could be that a particular device is generating too many threshold alarms. The rule can be deactivated for this device only, but still be active for all other objects.

In case of a group, you activate/deactivate the smart rule with the toggle for the group alone. You can then separately activate/deactivate the rule for the group's children via the dropdown box below the toggle.

<img src="/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-smartrule-children.png" name="Smart rule activate children" />

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}
A rule which is activated for a particular object only works if the rule is also globally enabled.
{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

### Example: Defining explicit thresholds {#example-defining-explicit-thresholds}

To define a threshold rule follow these steps:

1. In the navigator, select the desired group or device to apply a threshold to.
2. Switch to the **Data explorer** tab.
3. If the data point that should raise the threshold is not visible by default, select **Add data point** and [add a data point](/cockpit/data-point-library/#to-add-a-data-point-to-the-library).
4. Click the menu icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-menu-vertical text-muted icon-20"></i> at the end of the row of the respective data point and select **Create smart rule**.
5. Select the smart rule "On measurement explicit threshold create alarm".
6. Fill in the red range minimum and red range maximum value. When the measurement value enters or leaves the RED range, an alarm is created or respectively cleared. For details, see the description of the rule "On measurement explicit threshold create alarm" in the [Smart rules collection](/cockpit/smart-rules-collection/).
7. Under **Create Alarm** you can optionally edit the alarm type and the alarm text.
8. Under **Target assets or devices** you can select the object this rule will be applied to.
9. Click **Create** to create the smart rule.

The rule will automatically be set to active and alarms appear if they arise.

### Chain rule execution {#chain-rule-execution}

Smart rules can create a new data item on the platform. For example, the threshold rule creates new alarms. This new data can be handled further by selected smart rules, for example, by an "On alarm send e-mail" rule.

Using this mechanism, it is possible to create a chain of smart rules.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
If you create a rule chain keep in mind how much data will be created and avoid overload or excessive amount of data.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}
